\chapter{Codesign}
In each age, contemporaries have attempted to place their work in the 
overarching history of computing,and some have attempted to look forward and 
guess at the field's future;in either case, they are often wrong.Computing is a 
young, volatile industry, and it is often much easier to placeplace a time 
period in history retrospectively than it is to do so in the 
moment.Nonetheless, this is what I will attempt to do in this chapter.I am 
writing about compilers here in the 2020s, the time period in which I work on 
compilers.Out of hubris I will attempt to contextualize today's compiler work 
in the context of history.Please let my future readers be 
forgiving.\begin{quotation}
But there are still lots of interesting open problems left and one of the most 
intriguing aspects ofcompiler design is can we use AI, machine learning, and 
large language models like GPT-3 to createcode automatically from written or 
spoken specifications. That's still an unfolding story and I'm not willingto 
trust any program created by an AI program at this point. I wouldn't want it in 
my pacemaker. I wouldn'twant it in my self-driving car or in my airplane. But 
maybe for a computer game, it's okay. This is whatthey're creating with these 
at this time. So even the area of programming language translation isundergoing 
new approaches and how successful they will be is yet to be 
determined.\cite{aho_oral_history_2022}
\end{quotation}
\section{Godbolt}
Huge jump in compiler accessability\cite{godbolt_happy_birthday_ce_2022}.
\section{Accelerators}
Lattner talks on mojo explaining motivation for languages and hw sw codesign.
FPGAs. ASICs
\section{MLIR}
\section{Flang}
\section{Python DSLs}
